+++
title = "About"
description = "Andrew Goss Background"
+++
> <b>TL;DR</b> -- Data engineer, technical consultant, and business intelligence developer working to solve analytical challenges at the intersection of marketing and technology. Also a <a href="/travel">world traveler</a>.

Hey! I'm Andrew Goss. Thanks for visiting my website. My career has been tied closely to the convergence of marketing and advertising technology (adtech and martech) and the ever-increasing reliance on data at the heart of it all. Companies across the world have fundamentally shifted how they spend their marketing dollars and messaging is now at the individual level, where data-driven unique messages are being communicated across social media, publisher sites, personalized emails, videos, instant messaging... the list goes on and on in the digital sphere. With petabytes of data being collected at every turn through digital and offline interactions as well, I work to try and wrangle all of this and derive value from it.

Over the years in working in this space I've come across many great <a href="/resources">resources</a> and ideas to write about in this blog. If you're interested in learning more about me specifically you can read on (or check out my [resume](/resume)), otherwise you can skip down to [learn more](#problems_i_solve) about problems I help organizations with.

## My Background

I am currently a manager for Media Systems and Technology at <a href="http://www.digitaslbi.com/us" target="_blank">DigitasLBi</a>, where we use a variety of evolving technologies to build the systems and architectures behind business intelligence tools used extensively by global analytic teams and clients. I help clients translate large amounts of fragmented data into smarter optimization of marketing/advertising dollars through technical expertise combined with human marketing savviness and business acumen. Through the use of data science, our teams try and predict consumer desires and buying patterns.

Over the past 5+ years I have gained experience as both a developer and a marketer in leveraging people, process, and technology. I've held both client-facing and technical roles while addressing a wide range of business initiatives across industries such as finance, higher education, insurance, and technology. During this time I've worked with several high-profile agency clients including Bank of America, EDMC, Fitbit, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, and Reed Elsevier.

My cross-functional roles supporting these organizations have touched data engineering, ETL scripting, database design, business intelligence, database marketing, marketing automation, operational reporting, and advanced analytics. As a consultant, I strive to consistently provide quality ongoing services, on-time deliverables, and open communication around project status, risks, and challenges. I am results-oriented, well-organized, self-motivated, and I work to build strong relationships with my clients and team members.

Outside of my regular responsibilities, I take a proactive approach towards career growth and skill development through a dedicated effort towards continuing education. I started this blog not just as a personal branding tool but also a place to centralize thoughts, to measure progress in learning new concepts and furthering my abilities, and to keep my writing and web dev skills sharp. I'm always reading articles and following the thought leaders across the world to stay on top of trends. I <a href="https://twitter.com/andrewrgoss" target="_blank">tweet</a> lots of links regularly so others can also read about these ever-shifting marketing technology patterns shaping businesses. And of course, I never underestimate the power of asking questions and seeking mentorship.

## <a name="problems_i_solve"></a>Problems I Solve

I've found that many clients I've worked with over the years are trying to address fairly similar issues from a high-level perspective (albeit within different business contexts) when it comes to technology solutions for their marketing and advertising intiatives. There's a deluge of data available and businesses know they need to be using it to make smarter decisions in reaching their target audiences about their brand. However, the data is typically fragmented across disparate datasets. Often times, these are siloed within the organization itself and there isn't always a way to easily integrate the data together to tell the full story. Further exasperating the problem is the fact that the data hygiene is frequently poor. Sales reps at the end of the pipeline might complain about the quality of the leads they are trying to work with. Or analysts may complain that when evaluating the effectiveness of advertising campaigns their results are skewed. Or their reports are taking forever to run because unbeknownst to them, there are poorly-tuned databases on the backend. Through the implementation of comprehensive business rules and well thought-out architecture and procedural scripts, I help alleviate these data challenges.

Everyone wants the holistic, 360-view of a person's interactions with the company to create a better end user experience and drive more business. But many times there is no centralized repository and no standardized way of working with the data. Or conversely, everything is trying to be converted into structured data. Companies need people who can wield the technologies that enable analysis of unstructured data as well, like large blocks of text or pictures. My team helps determine whether a traditional relational database management system or a Hadoop file storage system is appropriate based on the available data and business needs.

Lack of documentation can be a problem too, with many people following their own methods instead of a formalized process. When people leave the organization, things get lost in translation. There ends up being legacy programs and processes that no longer get used but since it's too risky or impossible to start over, things get built on top of each other. Eventually the system becomes an entangled mess of files and code. I can't predict future use for the programs I develop but I always try to emphasize clean, readable code that is easily configurable (through the use of parameters and such) with anticipation that needs will inevitably change. Furthermore, I am diligent about committing my source code through git and putting together clear technical documentation that future developers can easily decipher.

Lastly, there's too much manual work going on. You'd think this would only be happening at smaller companies, but it happens at larger ones too. A lot of this stems from people not knowing of a better approach or simply being set in their ways. I always seek ways to automate any remotely repititive manual process I come across. This frees up resources to focus their time on more meaningful insights that drive business impact and reduces the potential for human error.

These are some of the types of challenges that I love to tackle. If these kinds of issues are all too familiar to you, let's get in touch.